---
title: "Tutorial-2: Uni3D Introduction and 3DTrans repo for Multi-dataset Training"
collection: talks
type: "Tutorial"
permalink: /talks/2023-04-07-tutorial-2
venue: "Onstie: Tencent Conference & Weichat & Bilibili Website"
date: 2023-04-14
location: "Shanghai, China"
---

[Slides here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GbNM4BSNugU32m-1IbV1fdXCkfe9j4hI/view?usp=share_link)

Coming Soon! 

<br/>
This is a description of my tutorial:
<br/>

Current 3D object detection models follow a single dataset-specific training and testing paradigm, which often faces a serious detection accuracy drop when they are directly deployed in another dataset. In this paper, we
study the task of training a unified 3D detector from multiple datasets. We observe that this appears to be a challenging task, which is mainly due to that these datasets present substantial data-level differences and taxonomylevel variations caused by different LiDAR types and data acquisition standards. Inspired by such observation, we present a Uni3D which leverages a simple data-level correction operation and a designed semantic-level couplingand-recoupling module to alleviate the unavoidable datalevel and taxonomy-level differences, respectively. Our method is simple and easily combined with many 3D object detection baselines such as PV-RCNN and Voxel-RCNN,
enabling them to effectively learn from multiple off-theshelf 3D datasets to obtain more discriminative and generalizable representations. Experiments are conducted on many dataset consolidation settings including WaymonuScenes, nuScenes-KITTI, Waymo-KITTI, and WaymonuScenes-KITTI consolidations. Their results demonstrate that Uni3D exceeds a series of individual detectors trained
on a single dataset, with a 1.04× parameter increase over a selected baseline detector. We expect this work will inspire the research of 3D generalization since it will push the limits of perceptual performance.